Readme.md, before:

**Volumina** - Volume Slicing and Editing Library
=============================================

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/Ilastik/volumina.png)](http://travis-ci.org/Ilastik/volumina)

Installing
==========
First, test volumina

    $ python setup.py nosetests

and then install it:

    $ python setup.py install

Developing with Volumina
========================

*In the following we assume an Ubuntu system.*

Virtual Python Environment
--------------------------

Make a new virtualenv for volumina

    $ virtualenv voluminave/

and activate it

    $ source voluminave/bin/activate


Linking to PyQt and Sip 
----------------------- 

Installing PyQt/Sip via pip is currently (May 2012) broken. Therefore
install the development versions of Qt4, Sip, and PyQt4 globally and
link them into the virtual environment: 

     $ cd voluminave/lib/python2.7/site-packages/ 
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/PyQt4/
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sip.so
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sipdistutils.py
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sipconfig.py
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sipconfig_nd.py


Building the development requirements
-------------------------------------
Make sure that g++ is installed on your system besides the usual gcc C++/C development toolchain.
Install the dependencies using pip from the volumina repos root dir:

    $ pip install -r requirements/development.txt

Commit message:

two stage dev req install procedure due to broken qimage2ndarray package

Readme.md, after:

**Volumina** - Volume Slicing and Editing Library
=============================================

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/Ilastik/volumina.png)](http://travis-ci.org/Ilastik/volumina)

Installing
==========
First, test volumina

    $ python setup.py nosetests

and then install it:

    $ python setup.py install

Developing with Volumina
========================

*In the following we assume an Ubuntu system.*

After you entered a virtual environment you can automatically execute all the steps documented below by calling

$ ./install-development-reqs-virtualenv-ubuntu.sh

from the "requirements" directory in the volumina repository.

1. Virtual Python Environment
-----------------------------

Make a new virtualenv for volumina

    $ virtualenv voluminave/

and activate it

    $ source voluminave/bin/activate


2. Linking to PyQt and Sip 
--------------------------

Installing PyQt/Sip via pip is currently (May 2012) broken. Therefore
install the development versions of Qt4, Sip, and PyQt4 globally and
link them into the virtual environment: 

     $ cd voluminave/lib/python2.7/site-packages/ 
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/PyQt4/
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sip.so
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sipdistutils.py
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sipconfig.py
     $ ln -s /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/sipconfig_nd.py


3. Building the development requirements
----------------------------------------
Make sure that g++ is installed on your system besides the usual gcc C++/C development toolchain. qimage2ndarray depends on numpy without requiring the dependency (as of June 2012). Therefore we need to install our requirements in a two stage procedure:

    $ pip install -r requirements/development-stage1.txt
    $ pip install -r requirements/development-stage2.txt
